- So now that we've talked a little bit about
what cryptographic hashes are,
let's actually jump into the JCA,
and leverage the message digest engine
to create a hash.
In your IDE, I'd like you to open up source, main, Java.
And in the com.frankmoley.crypto package,
let's create a new subpackage, called hash.
And in our hash package, let's create a new Java class,
called HashUtils.
And now, just like we've done a couple times, here,
I want to create a private static final String.
We will call that SHA2_ALGORITHM,
and we will set that equal to SHA-256.
Now, one of the attacks on a hash
is using a rainbow table,
which is a pre-computed set of hash chains.
We're gonna prevent that by using salt.
So we need to create a method
to create a random salt value.
So let's do that.
Public static byte array, generateRandomSalt.
Now, in order to generate random bytes,
we would create a byte array, and call it salt,
and we're gonna create a 16-byte array.
Now we will leverage, from Java security,
the SecureRandom class,
and then from that,
we will use the nextBytes method,
and pass it in the salt value,
and now we can simply return our salt.
So, at this point, we have a method
that will give us 16 bytes of salt.
Now, in the real world,
that salt is gonna have to be stored somewhere
in case you ever need to do equality
on an original text
and then the hash of that original text.
But more on that later when we get into passwords.
So, for now, we'll just do public static byte array,
createSHA2Hash,
and we will pass it an input String,
and then a byte array for our salt.
And we'll go ahead and make this throw an exception,
so we don't have to deal with that, here in a moment.
All right.
Let me shrink this down just a touch here,
so we can see what we're actually gonna do.
And I'm gonna create a byte array output string,
and this is just a little trick that I learned,
to copy two sets of bytes into one,
which is how the salt value gets added
to an original input, in order to do the hashing.
So we'll create that new byte stream,
and to that byte stream, we will write our salt.
Then we will simply take that same byte stream,
and we will write our input.getBytes.
So now we've computed a value that is the salt,
plus the input.
And finally,
we will get the valueToHash,
which is the combination of those two,
from the byteStream.toByteArray.
So now we can go and create an instance
of a MessageDigest.
And like we're seen before,
we are going to call the get instance method,
statically, and we will pass it, our SHA2_ALGORITHM.
And now we can simply return the messageDigest.digest,
passing it our valueToHash,
and that's all there is to it.
Let's go ahead and create a test class, now,
so we can actually see this in action.
I will use both methods to do that.
Now, for our generateRandomSalt, we will simply
create a byte array called salt,
equal to HashUtils.generateRandomSalt.
We will assert that it is not null,
passing it the salt,
and just because I'd like to see how it looks
when we print it out,
I will do a System.out.println,
using the DataTypeConverter class,
I will print the hex binary of our salt.
And that's all we need to do on that test.
So now, let's actually do the hash test.
So, once again, we will create a salt.
Now I'm gonna create a random string
in order to hash it.
So, valueToHash, equals,
I'm gonna use the UUID class
to create a random UUID, and then just toString on that.
Now, I'm gonna actually go calculate our hash,
by calling in my HashUtils.createSHA2Hash,
now we will pass it our valueToHash,
and then our salt.
Now, this method, actually, will throw an exception.
So we'll just add that to the signature of our test, here.
Now let's make sure that our hash is not null.
And let's go ahead and compute our hash again,
just to ensure that if we pass in
the exact same valueToHash,
and the exact same salt, that we can now do
an assertEquals on them.
Now, here's a little caveat, because we're dealing
with byte arrays.
We're gonna actually need to go print the HexBinary,
so that we can compare two Strings.
So we will do the hash, and then likewise,
we will call the DataTypeConverter.printHexBinary
on hash2, and those should be equal,
when we run our test.
So let's go ahead and execute our test, now.
So what we see here in our console output
is the actual hexadecimal value of the salt
from our first test, and you'll see
that both tests passed.
Now, you could go a lot further than this,
if you really wanted to see how hashing works.
You could have different variations of input,
and salt, and check equality, and not equals,
but I'll leave that to you to do on your own time,
to really play with how the hash functions work.